But, you know, Cotton was, the burning of the Catonian Library was saving her books was a wonderful story.
I have a book, myself, which gives a different story about fire than any other known.
You know, Bentley was the librarian.
And it's Morris Johnson's copy of Cassidy's Catonian Cadillac.
The first page is covered with Morris Johnson's story of what he heard from Caswell about how the fire started, which was that Bentley came in late.
He'd come from Cambridge.
And it was cold.
He turned up, he left the fire on, he left the blower on the fire when he went to bed.
And that's where the fire actually started.
And if so, Bentley, who is of course most famous for attacking the ancients,
I'm going to ask you to do, when I turn this over, I did something, this is the first time this has happened, a hundred hours of tape.
Do the Texas thing once more.
You don't have to do the whole thing.
Well, I think the principle that I was saying, that was,
Well, what I'm saying is that Texas I do not think is unique in its reluctance to let unpublished material be made freely available.
But many institutions regard their investment in material with scholarly potential in it as a kind of investment process which will eventually improve the student body and the quality of education in place by luring in
business academics to do the same thing, and I think you'll find perhaps a little less publicity than a number of other institutions, too.
And I said that... You got a statement that started, the rationale is the... Well, the rationale is that by bringing unpublished material to a place, you attract people to come.
Perhaps a distinguished scholar, professor, and so on will spend a couple of years with you because he's teaching and at the same time working on the material you've got.
He comes in, the graduate students want to come there because he's there, and the graduate students who come are better than what you would otherwise get.
They turn in the better on teachers of the undergraduates who slightly ameliorate the undergraduate education.
Maybe better people start applying to go to the school.
I mean, you get the whole thing.
You get the process going.
It's an idea.
One thing they claim to be very proud of is that they say that on average,
60 books a year are published that have been based, not necessarily primarily, but in large major on research conducted there.
And they have a little glass case of recent books.
The book on James Joyce's wife, I guess, and Michael Hallward's job.
The first one, Hallward, he really kind of ticked out, but he has spent so much time down there.
because they wouldn't gladly take this point.
And then you did mention something about Leon Adel.
Well, I'm not sure that this is absolutely... I would check it out.
I believe that Adel has a kind of an understanding that as he was editing all of him, he might have something to say about
there was some advice to put in about the use of unpublished material that he was going to get to in a volume that might be a year or two.
Hence, you can imagine how you feel if you were working on a whole overview of the correspondence and people kept snapping up the best letters, the most revealing letters,
prior to your book and publishing them in separate articles, which you might argue your own book made unnecessary.
But then I said, gee, I don't see anything particularly wrong with that.
You said, perhaps, but that's not too dissimilar to what Texas is doing.
No, that's right.
I mean, the administration of your manuscripts with a view to what you think is the best way that should be published is actually a duteless one or so, a privilege.
Now, there are places where the British Library, to the best of my knowledge, does not restrict the use of anything.
Although, uncatalogued material might be sort of a typical subject.
You know, I mean, you might ask yourself, I believe it was true until fairly recently, and maybe even still true, that the Mongolian manuscripts at Cambridge University were unavailable because they had never been catalogued since the middle of the 18th century.
And I had a colleague in the 60s who tried to use that material, and he was a serious and very proud of Mongolian scholar.
And I seem to remember that in the 60s, mid-60s, it was still impossible to look at 18th century and early 19th century Mongolian acquisitions of Cambridge because they weren't cataloged.
And this, by the way, was catch-22 because they weren't cataloged because nobody could read them.
And the people who could read them couldn't see them because they want to tell them.
That's a good story.
I like that.
Check it with Cambridge, but I think you want to find it.
There are pocket collections all over the place.
I wish I could see Brian Jenkins and Jackie Reckler.
Well, that's not, again, that's not unique to them.
Well, Texas still has stuff to bring in.
There was a, remember, you probably do know about it, a kind of a little
a fire event a few years ago about the state of the home catalog material.
At which time, you probably know, there were substantial acquisitions which had never been uncreated or in type of analysis.
But I think that's been accurate work very hard.
Yeah, clearly.
I mean, this is another question.
Suppose you are trying to build a library
you try to build a library from very little, really fast.
Well, your first task is to buy as fast as you can before the material vanishes.
A lot of money is available.
You've got the money maybe to buy it, but cataloging is incredibly expensive.
A lot of places take the position, let's buy now and repent and buy and haze, repent and leisure, catalog and leisure.
One of the things that Hamilton
said and stand by, and what you've heard to some degree from other people, but certainly not to the degree.
He claims, he says that they bought nothing with worthless stuff, which is patently outrageous.
Pardon me.
But he did say that they did buy a lot of worthless stuff.
Nicholas says, you know,
because it's unknown."
He said, but we're finding stuff today from 16th century writers, which all of a sudden is quite interesting.
I mean, everyone makes fun of the writer's laundry list, saying who wants to know what King James Amos paid for butter in one week.
But on the other hand, wouldn't he be sort of interested to know what Chaucer paid for butter?
Suddenly it becomes kind of anointed by age.
Let me just, is this driving you crazy?
Can I, shall I move to my own thing?
Oh, that's a pretty one.
Are you okay, Tom?
Do you want to go someplace?
Because there is an area I want to get into at some point too late.
Let me see if there's a woman.
How long would I have a woman?
I would think about 12 years, maybe 10.
I could be off by that.
Is it named Haven O'Moore?
Now you'd better turn it off.
I'm just guessing that traditional science, as Haven O'Moore views it, I suspect is the idea, it's rather like the idea of
of privilege knowledge.
The notion that there is a body of knowledge that moves from age to age and culture to culture, and somehow that you can find communities in it, that there's something between the Vedas and the Infinegan's Wake, that there's a pulse of somehow... I mean, it's a very traditional... Traditional is a very good word, in all sense, because this is... But maybe science isn't...
Science is learning, knowledge, and you can define that as something you happen to prefer or like.
I mean, people who are Neo-Platonist theorists, Rosicrucians, Masonic orders of all sorts exist.
I mean, exist who believe that there is a body, a way of looking at things that moves from time to time without altering very much.
I think Haven's books reflect a kind of prescriptive understanding of the whole body of writing and thinking.
You'll notice, for example, there's very little illustration in Haven's books.
I don't, as far as I know, I may be completely off base, but I've never actually... No, the books he acquired, not his own, because there's quite a bit of illustration on his own.
As I understand it, I think his perception of continuity of knowledge is not so much a visual one, it's a rather abstractly philosophical one.
It affects certain authors more than others.
Do you think he became a collector?
And again, now we are Dr. Bumpel collector.
That would be nice.
Why did he become a collector?
To acquire these milestones of world
or to study them, to go in and capture this tradition?
Well, let me just describe it.
This is a valid question.
No, I mean, if you mean, does a man go out and buy a copy of The City of God in Latin in order to read it, don't be silly.
Of course it doesn't.
It's the sort of touchstone idea that you can actually
be in the presence of the text.
Many people feel, I do, that you look at the wall and the spine, you sort of draw some kind of inspiration.
Seeing things that you may not even touch.
It may never take off the shelf.
That's how I became a collective.
Walking into the libraries and friends who collect.
And I used to say, I feel the camera race.
It's like a microwave.
Fantastic information, too.
Yeah, really, something cool in the summer, warm in the winter.
It's just something.
I'm approaching this delicate, and I'm just wondering at what point did he start acquiring, once you get established, a wish to the Michael Davis, and then you have the werewolves all of them to buy these different books.
About that, I actually...
I'm being quite honest here.
I don't have to do that.
I don't know at what point and what the details of any of the financing were.
I mean, I know probably far less than you do.
What I do know is that there was a kind of pattern to this collecting.
It began with an interest in Blake and in, for that matter, Trianon Press, like some of those in Blake, and in press books.
And I think he gradually became considerably more sophisticated.
Press books were
sort of an initial, early enthusiasm, which he then took one big opportunity to make them very, very splashy.
But he got more and more selective as he got more experienced.
And certainly there are things in the garden sale which don't seem to make much sense in terms of the other books.
You sort of ask yourself, why do you need some radiative pictures on values?
And the answer might be, as with many collectors, you get bored.
There hasn't been anything on offer that you very much want.
And the other answer might be that if he'd been able to continue... The other answer might be anything like that.
Yeah.
Well, another point is that when you buy these miscellaneous things, sometimes if they are part of some amazing total vision that you have of the world, it may take you another 20 years to bring them into the scope of the building around them.
I don't know.
Certainly there are books, there were books in our collection, and books excluded from the cell.
Song books were.
Which don't seem to fit with any kind of cosmic view of anything, but that's inevitable.
What if you're going in to capture the energy?
I'm supposed to capture the energy.
A few sparks.
I think that's good.
There's no way I'm going to convince you one way or the other about what I'm supposed to do.
You don't get anxious.
You don't want to see the guy's done in.
Well done in isn't the point.
I don't want to be... I don't want to talk out of school about somebody when it doesn't know they're the right to.
That's right.
And I am talking about books, my position of books.
I am going to tell this story as much as I can.
I am my trope of the fact that he's a private individual.
You know, there are limits to which I can go as well as a writer.
I have acquired the instrument that established the garden, which made it very hard to find.
And the way I found it...
I don't think that there's any reason why Hayden would be secretive about his academic background.
He went to the University of Oklahoma, I believe, after the war.
Was he on WW2?
Yeah.
And he was also in the Korean War.
He has told a number of people he worked on McCarty's staff, I guess.
He certainly met him.
I don't know the details of that.
I do know.
I don't know who I can talk about.
But yes, he had some contact with me.
He was at the University of Oklahoma, I believe, and at Berkeley at one time, and at Brandon's at one time.
And as you know, there's a DR in front of this man with a full stop.
And I didn't know this.
Do it again.
There's a what?
Doctor.
So, there may be somewhere a record again.
With a full stop, or you say, stop.
No, like, like he is.
I don't know how he is.
I have never seen Preston.
I've never seen it.
No, I don't know the details of his degrees or what.
But I believe he was at his feet.
How old would you think he is?
I'm told he looks a lot younger than he probably is.
Yeah, I think I could guess.
But it would be me guessing rather than information.
I would say he was 60 now.
60, maybe.
I think he's been in the Second World War and he's 60 now, I wonder.
Other age, I think.
Okay, maybe.
I think the tales about his service experience I have to not want to discuss, because I know them from what he's told.
If they're really true or not, then it's a matter of record.
He's got, presumably, army in his service.
Without pushing you, does he claim to have any decorations?
I mean, he's never made much of a point about it.
I know something about what he's discussed as war experience, but that's very personal.
Okay.
And, let's see.
I'm told that he made it.
Have you tried to interview him?
You know, I think, believe it or not, I think he would be contraceptive.
I think many of these questions he'd tell you the whole thing.
If he wouldn't, then I shouldn't.
No, I think he will.
But the way a professional investigator, like my investigative reporter works, a journalist, is that you generally like to have everything that you want to know.
And I think I've got it.
I mean, I think I've got it.
But you gave me a very interesting, fascinating evaluation of the man about the magnetism that he exudes, he projects.
And I'm wondering if maybe this might not have come into play with this Michael Davis.
I know nothing about that whole aspect.
Let's ask one question, and this you could probably say, you know, for the record,
But did you ever know there was such a person as a Michael Davis?
Or did you think that Hayden was the person who was the major player in the bookmarker?
I did not know the existence of Michael Davis until it was one.
And you are not, you join a family that includes everyone who knows.
Nobody knows.
Well, Paul Galari in New York said, we all wondered where the money was coming from, and now we don't like it.
Maybe that's the case.
Well, it is true that there was, I mean, it's one thing that people speculate on first.
A new player in the game shows up, especially at this level.
A major player.
People always speculate about the money, and you will hear, before all this blew up,
There were calculus theories, many of them.
I think the sentence I will end this chapter with will be a quote of John Clemens.
And I will only paraphrase it now because it's quite wonderful.
And he has said it in the presence of any number of people.
We have to forgive him.
Somebody said, is he crazy?
Asked if he's crazy.
He said, whatever he is, don't condemn him.
He loves books so much.
something like that.
The man loves books.
We have to forgive him.
Something like that.
I have it down.
I quite agree.
It's a fair thing to say about Haven, but with all respect, it's typical of John B. Severn.
Is that right?
I think I missed.
I wish I'd started this project two years ago.
When I said it was typical, I didn't mean that in a complimentary way.
Is that right?
I very much like John, but he did have a tendency to
No, he had a tendency to sort of, well, I was going to say this.
I think one asks.
I've got to do that.
I'm told he has children from a previous marriage.
Is that something you've heard?
I've heard these stories.
But not again.
I think I'm going to talk to him.
Let's leave Haven.
I think personal details are things that... How would you judge his collection?
It's small and select.
A collection that was sold in November, let's say.
Well, it was in many ways quite terrific.
He tried to get the best possible copy of every book, and in some cases he certainly succeeded.
If he can succeed in more than a few, that's very remarkable.
I think
It's curious how complete it feels, even though it clearly wasn't.
No one intended to expose it so early.
Pretty good.
I guess the greatest surprise of the sale was your purchase of the Don Quixote, the $1.5 million.
That's the way you look for $300.
How do you count for something like that?
Well, the selfies that far off,
There were two very determined collectors who wish to buy it.
One who didn't want to get it.
In general, that's good, isn't it, that if an institution disposes of the evidence.
We all have, I think, mixed feelings about it.
We'd like to know that there's something called constancy or there is a
constant situation when we say there's only one copy in private hands out of heat.
It's kind of embarrassing suddenly to discover that there are six more available.
And this may very well happen.
How quickly did the Tamerlaids show up?
You know, I think they show up to people.
Well, no, that's not true.
Tamerlane has turned up for a long time.
There was a set number, and then there were a couple of discoveries.
And the most recent one was really discovered absolutely
for no money.
There is, of course, a copy of Tamerlane that's somewhere out there.
There was a Virginia copy that was stolen.
My understanding of that copy was that where somebody sold it, I mean, it was thought that that might be a missing Virginia copy, and it was subjected to every known test, and it came to plain.
I'm sorry.
But the question of there not being just part of way about Keokia and Spain,
We sold a copy not long ago.
One of the very few copies now, which I think is in their senses, but that was given to Juan Carlos.
So presumably if the king keeps his books in Spain, there's a copy in Spain.
But that would have been the first copy to have gone to Spain.
I see.
Okay.
Going back to Spain.
But if that's the case, and I'm certainly not asking you to confirm what I could outside,
that's that's a nice story that's a happy ending isn't it yeah i mean this is their national book yes but i mean what i mean is that the king's copy is not the haven copy it's the copy which is so so the story is so charming is not correct it's so often happens doesn't it yeah i mean the story of harry wideness saying uh from shipwreck this will go with me i'm now told that even though quarry
I'll help circulate that story and it's probably not true.
No, we never circulate it.
In fact, the article that you've been told about is by me.
Harry Watt, Courage Endless.
I'll give you a copy.
May I?
Yeah.
Sort of explaining what actually did happen.
Well, I think I need that.
Okay.
I'll give you a copy.
I may have a copy.
And Dick Manning, of course, urged me to see you when I came here.
I spent about three hours with him.
And he's one of my subjects.
Good.
So, what can you tell me about Dick as a collector?
With the knowledge that he suggested I see you, okay?
And if there's any problem, you know, about this, we'll scratch it.
Well, the problem is this, really.
When, you know, when you're asking me... Yeah, okay.
But, basically...
It isn't like I don't like talking about other people I'm delighted to, but I'll find myself having to say the sort of things people say in talk shows or in interviews.
I owe it all to my offensive line.
Forget about me.
I know I hit 450, but if it weren't for the guys who sat in front of me, I wouldn't have a chance.
They'd walk me every time.
What was Lefty Gomez's secret of my success?
I don't want to give you Pablum, and yet I can't tell you anything.
Well, he is, well, it's much more impressive.
He's two models, though.
But he's a collector who's really only been collecting books for six or seven years.
Yeah, so I got him.
It is interesting.
He told me.
Well, he's a long-term, long-standing collector.
Well, he's got two rooms at the next fall, I think.
He told me.
He made you a collector?
Yes, I think so.
I deal with him a lot.
I think he's his... I mean, I'm not entirely sure of the... I don't quite understand the scope of what he's doing completely.
But, yeah, he's a... Major isn't a word to use about collectors, I think, until... Well, all right.
It's good to continue again.
I mean, there are collectors who have
very little money for major collectors.
There's a guy in Oxford who has been collecting simply and fastidiously all his life.
I think he once spent the equivalent of $4,000 in the book.
He has an absolutely spectacular collection.
Is he somebody I should look into?
Which it might be awkward right now.
It's not very well.
And in his collection, they sort of
But there are other people who have, I mean, who can just simply buy a book at any price.
I'm doing both kinds of collectors, you know.
I mean, when I'm at Qualich, I'm at the top end of the scale.
Yeah, but we also... As you understand, I'm covering the waterfront, you know, on this.
But you see, I mean, even most of us collect, you know.
I consider myself quite a serious director, but I'm not on these guys who are
I collect books and various things.
I mean, people you've never heard of, I hope, like John Payne, Collier, and the world's greatest.
Oh, I like him.
He's a very fascinating character.
I got interested in him when I was a graduate student, even earlier.
And I should have written his biography, but I didn't.
I waited for a bad man to come out and established it was there.
When did that come out?
Oh, it's a dreadful book.
It came out about five years ago.
Unfortunately, it's a biography which took as its thesis the idea that Cotier was not a forger.
He was innocent of everything, and that this was conspiracy of the... What?
It's rather mad.
But the guy selected... The author... Yeah, well, the author... Unfortunately, the author was very selective about what he chose to tell anyone.
And his book actually is quite responsive.
We don't know any of the other guys.
So he did this.
Do you collect wise?
I don't collect wise.
I have a fair amount of materials related to wise.
Are you interested in forgeries?
Yeah.
Why?
What's it interesting?
I think forgeries are particularly
in right now in a way that is, I think, fairly lazy.
Forgery, first of all, is a fascinating field, because the borderline between forgery and fiction is not an extremely clear one.
Is Robinson Crusoe forgery, for example, starts by saying, this is a true story.
We like that, and I think there is a certain little tickle to forgeries, which we like brushing with.
lawlessness, and a lot of crushing with cheating, and there's something rather delightful about people getting away with certain things.
But many foragers also play a terrible... I collect bibliography and materials throughout the history of book collecting, that's what you're doing, but I collect only... Well, you should come and see mine.
No, I lived here.
I lived here for 20 years.
No, 15.
This is home.
What brought you here?
Well, I was tired of teaching.
Book-selling is really the only other thing I can do that makes a living.
I taught at Boston University from 65 to 75.
And the part that continues before that, very much.
But when I quit teaching, I wanted to deal in books, and this is, I've always liked one.
What did you teach?
Basically, Shakespeare from Shakespeare.
Shakespeare was my passion.
Do you know what Michael Davis' nickname was?
He was a crackhead in the crowd.
False staff.
I've heard that.
Well, I've heard that.
He was false staff.
He was a private creature.
I'm sorry, I don't know.
I've done my work, as you can see.
You're from Massachusetts, I think I asked, from where Boston came from?
No, I came back.
And went to Harvard, I gather.
Yeah, I saw it with undergraduate and junior fellow undergraduate.
And I saw the announcement for your book and the book collector, which I just recently have put together an entire one
I told Nicholas last night, I said, I hope you realize how expensive these things act as a run.
But I don't think I can do this project without it.
They're just wonderful.
I've got all the colophones.
I've got all the colophones together.
I've got a wonderful mint.
I've never used that word.
It's just an excellent copy of the Carter Pollock for your career.
I have Carter's copy.
You have Carter's copy?
That's nice.
I'm coming back in August, September for the second round.
I told Nicholas last night, I said, this is, I told my wife.
I think I might have said Mary Uncle.
She's wonderful.
I just was thinking of the other day, in terms of singleness of purpose and length of
I would probably give her my vote.
No, there are some Italian and Spanish and a couple of German collectors who are really major.
There are major, of course, Japanese individual collectors as well as institutional.
A couple of Australian collectors that belong in your pantheon.
The difficulty for me is that if I knew somebody would welcome me,
I'd put you in touch, but I'd have to find out about it first.
I might be able to give you something.
I'm going to write you, okay?
Okay.
I'll look into it.
I'll say the one collection which I think, above all, it's possible for you to know about it.
You ought to find out about it.
I'll see.
Is it British?
It's European.
Okay.
We're at the mag's reception now, and this gentleman is going to talk to me.
Thank you.
But we are talking now with Mr. Julian Roberts at the Bodleian.
Is it the Bodley Library?
Bodleian.
Yeah.
It's very familiarly as Bodleian, and then the graduates call it the Bodleian.
You said you were about to vote there.
an exhibit of a private collection.
The current exhibition we're doing at the moment is the collection of Robert Thurston.
Is that something I can see before I... You can see the exhibition, yes.
Oxford, of course, has been collecting books as long as he's been in Oxford.
That's right.
Unfortunately, we had a medieval library, but it disappeared in the 1550s.
The number of private collectors contributed to that, but at last, nearly everything was gone.
My study will start effectively with the dissolution of the monasteries.
Well, we did.
Although there was no university library here, when the monastic books were appearing on the market or were being disposed of,
Some gynecologists, of course, couldn't have quite a lot of asty books.
But there was no effective university library here to receive them, as there was.
For example, when the monasteries were dissolved in Leipzig in Germany, the monastic books flowed straight into the university library.
That didn't happen to them.
When, since there was the Web Street?
Well, it was at the same time.
The German monasteries were at Leipzig, the Protestant center, and there was of course
where most of the monastic life is closed down.
That's worth pointing out.
This was by no means a unique occurrence at that time.
Tragic as it was.
Catastrophic.
Was it catastrophic?
Do you really believe that a lot of precious things were irrevocable?
There's no doubt about that before.
A lot of books were saved on the monastic life, but probably until about 75 to 80% of Spanish
But that, of course, is true of any library of the time.
Not just monastic libraries, in fact, anybody's library.
You won't find that it was dispersed in
In the 16th and 17th century, monastical wires were found as a rule more than an identifiable survivor rate of more than 10 or 20 percent.
Of course, in these cases there was systematic destruction.
It was not so much systematic, it was carelessness.
People had no value for the books.
They didn't realise... Well, a lot of the monks, of course, took books away from the monks.
But there was also destruction of books.
Didn't a number of items find their way back to the continent?
Yes, not as many as you think.
I suspect that either the numbers going to the continent have been exaggerated or that they've simply not been identified in continental libraries as English monastic books.
I will start, this will be basically my second chapter.
My first chapter is kind of an overview.
starting at the Alexandria Library, and then the competition they had with programming and recalling Caesar's visit there, and just kind of an overview.
But what the stakes are, I guess I really want to make clear.
It's paper.
When you come right down, it's paper and it's vellum.
But what's on it is precious.
And why do people become obsessed with saving these things?
It's not just the paper.
obviously, yes, contained therein.
Well, Robert Burton is a very good example of a man who preserved what were thought of in his time as a female literature.
And peeps to a degree.
Oh, peeps, yes.
Each of them preserved a female literature.
And of course, the greatest collector of a female literature is Narcissus Luxor.
I don't know him.
How do we spell his name?
Narcissus, as in Narcissus.
And Luttrell, L-U-T-T-R-E-L-L.
Tell me a little bit about him, if you might.
Certainly.
Can you tell me a little bit about Narcissus?
Yes, he was... he flourished in the late 17th century and he collected
You see this runs counter to a commonly held view of many circles there.
the collecting of what we call modern forests developed a century, which is absolutely... No, I don't think that's... Well, the works of living writers... Living writers?
I would suspect that Narcissus, if he was preserving things, cut off the press, as it were.
He put the press in the ditch when he pardoned.
And of course there was George Thomas, the one who got collections among the British Library, who collected all the pamphlets of the Civil War period.
And you wouldn't have these things if it weren't for these people, would you say?
No, at the top end of the scale he collected a lot of Milton's prose pamphlets and so on.
And at the other end of the scale he collected very
Very attemoral material indeed.
Are there any statements?
Did he state why he was doing this?
Are there any records of things that he rather said?
Are there any contemporary... I don't think Tom Slecht has stated.
It's clear from his practice what he's trying to do.
But I don't think there's a statement on everyone, but I don't think there's anything
specific statement, which he said, I am trying to preserve all literature on both sides.
It was issued during the Civil War.
It's wonderful.
And that's what he could more succeed in doing.
And at what point did it come into the public domain?
Well, it was bought for the New British Museum.
I think the King bought it for the New British Museum in the late 18th century.
So the value of this was recognized?
Oh, yes.
It was recognized, as long as it was.
That's very important, because a lot of these collectors in the United States went to see the things that Isaiah Thomas collected.
Well, not so, of course, as was another.
Plus, we did see the value of the material coming off the press, picking it up as it appeared, and Thomas was another.
national addiction and national biography which i would have access to at home yeah that's that's important if marcus hasn't got the set you tell him that it's still a very different work i'm in the widening library three years a week so it's only it's only half an hour at my house that's excellent what you're telling me is basically
what I'm interested in.
So you would say without question that the individual collective has really contributed to the preservation of the national heritage.
Yes, absolutely.
It was left to the academics, wouldn't it?
They would only collect what they are currently interested in individually.
They're interested in what they're teaching.
That's funny.
I love that.
That's probably good.
I think one thing also that you get when you see the individual collection is quirks, eccentricities, which express themselves in their collecting case.
Back when we had some collections on witchcraft, it's doubtful the university would set about on a program of
producing a collection.
It's very unlikely that Oxford University would have collected books on witchcraft in the early 17th century.
Very unlikely indeed.
But do you have a collection?
We don't have a specific collection on witchcraft, but we've got all the books now because people retrospectively went back before.
People acquired them.
So could you make a general statement?
Does the university owe any kind of debt of gratitude to the individual collected?
Does it owe a debt?
Yes, and continuously.
This very year we've been given some books by examples.
A few weeks ago we went to the home of a former academic in this university, John Buxton.
who was interested particularly in the greater Stephen Farris, Spencer in Sydney.
And he left us the choice of his books.
Who got those?
That's one.
It's all right.
I just wonder why it's playing late.
Well, that's because it's recording you.
It's all right.
I've got one of these things too.
It proves to me that we're... It reassures me that we're dying.
I've got one of these.
That's beautiful.
That's small.
Anyway.
John Buxton.
I think even more recently we were given a collection of children's books which were connected with the family of Elizabeth Barrett Brownie, some of which had belonged to her.
Again, a private collection.
For me, the gems of that collection were some of the earliest separate printings of Lancaster's from Shakespeare, which I was very, very aware indeed.
And these came from a private collection.
One wonders if there was any kind of a temptation on the part of these people to consign and say, the Sotheby's are Christie's.
They're thoughtful enough to give them to Oxford.
But we must go into this where people have the opportunity, I guess.
I think that items like that would come out with pretty
Well, we've got a great loyalty of course among our own members of the university here.
John Buxford who taught English at New College down the road.
Other people see Oxford University's main library as a very fitting place for that.
We've got a long history of preserving that.
The record speaks for itself, a number of centuries.
Yes, it does.
Another thing, of course, if you adopt a very high profile in collected books, the characteristic example of course is the over-collection of these children's books.
People offer you more books because you are known to have a great collection.
uh this is one way also to perpetuate the name of the collective yes well we do do that actually those books will be given themselves forever that that was a case where was it wasn't there a national drive and didn't the prince actually help because i think these these books actually were
kind of on their way to the Archeneur's plot, weren't they?
No, not the Earthquake, no.
Well, maybe the artifacts were.
The Earthquakes had always wanted them to come, you know, because they did so much of their early research.
But he died unexpectedly, I think, didn't he?
He was in pain in health, I think, wasn't he?
And she is still very lively and weak.
So they found a proper home here, thank goodness?
Yes.
I think, yes, yes.
How would you feel
to see if you saw a collection like the Oakley collection broken up and down and go to... Well, we were thinking of a very, very pretty thing.
Because the point about the A.P.
collection, you see, was that, again, for me, the treasures of the A.P.
collection were the trifling of the books, which our predecessors didn't think there was any interest.
In the children's books of the 18th and early 19th century,
which our predecessors were not interested in.
And we now realise... When you say predecessors, you mean... People like, people like, holding jobs like mine, two and three hundred years ago.
They were, they were.
Were they in presentation?
Not in general.
They were not really interested in...
which they would have considered as something a very slight interest.
And don't forget that English literature was not taught in this university until the 19th century.
Might go out, why?
Well, it was, you could view, it was, it wasn't.
Well, what was taught here is task force, the theology, law.
No Shakespeare?
Shakespeare's not taught in this university.
He was collected in a library.
He's not taught in a library.
That's extraordinary.
Well, he's taught in an American university library.
Well, I understand.
I'm a Shakespeare fanatic.
Well, you won't find that St.
Harvard was teaching Shakespeare.
It's extraordinary.
I'm the first collector, and the first major collector, so I think I've had a collection in the United States of Shakespeare.
It's probably Boston from the library.
They have a fascinating collection.
Of course, the Folgers came through rather late, but there's a case of a truly obsessive collection out there.
When you set about to look for, to identify collections, are you looking for collections or are you looking for items?
I understand Cambridge now is
really going after entire collections.
That's something I really get.
I haven't asked what's coming up.
What did you see?
John Maggs.
I asked, yes.
Well, Cambridge first.
Yes, Cambridge is certainly buying her collections.
I suggest that that's something I might look into.
Not that there's any, just an interesting thing for a university doing.
Well, Cambridge, like ourselves, would find, if they buy an entire collection, they don't have quite a lot of their books already.
as we would with the other collection.
So rather than break them up, rather than dissipate the collection, just break them together.
I see no problem with duplication personally.
I know that I was rather astonished to learn that the Don Quixote was sold at the Garden Sale in November, which went for 1.5 million
to a Spanish, an anonymous Spanish colleague.
That book, which was a perfect, I mean it was the condition, it was exquisite, actually came from the Morgan collection.
It is.
And there are only six of these known in existence.
Well, we've had ours since the lovely first set up.
Well, that's the way it came from.
Our agent.
Our agent bought the book.
Truly.
We've had it since it's published.
Well, that's wonderful.
That's the way it came from.
Well, Marcus, of course, tells a wonderful story because, of course, it doesn't involve him.
You know, they could have had the Audubon Elephant Folio.
Audubon came through Worcester, spent two days trying to get an appointment with the dental librarian to sell, and they didn't have time to see him.
Well, you've always got time to see people.
And Marcus said, well, I can't do this.
Marcus will tell you, I'll tell you the same.
Nineteen times out of twenty, you know, we get nowhere, but twenty is the one.
It was a Saturday morning, I was on duty here, and somebody came, a gentleman came to say, what was there anybody to talk to about collecting maps?
And I said, okay, I'll see him, the lab is shutting him up now, I don't have a way to go.
He turned out that he got the disposal of the finest collection of maps and private accounts.
And he got them now.
This was a deal?
No, he was the brother of the collector.
He did more or less have the disposal of this collection.
Because we were nice to him, in the end we got the collection.
I'm curious that he came to a university first and I'll do a dealer.
Well, he wanted to keep a collection together, so what a dealer can't do is to pay in general, unless he's got somebody who wants to buy a collection, in general he can't guarantee to keep them together.
This man wanted to keep them and have them kept together as a memorial for his legacy project.
Can you think of that thing in the name of the collection?
That's an interesting story.
The collection is called the
And this is just a recent, is it?
And so it's here now?
And you call it a major collection?
It is a major collection, yes.
I love maps.
Maps just transport me.
So you are strong here in cartography.
Yes, that is one of our best friends, historical cartography.
Do you have a specific focus?
or are you really quite willing to go after anything that's significant?
Well, we try... If you ask what the purpose of the Buckingham Library is, the first answer is to support the research and teaching at Oxford University.
Which would suggest that you should follow the curriculum, wouldn't it?
Yes, but you've got to keep an eye on the curriculum of the future as well.
We are now, you see, a center for research into literature for children, which we were never before.
So the Oakley collection will bring people doing research into the University of Oxford.
It's wonderful.
Continue with that.
I interrupted what you said, if I were to ask for the purpose.
Well, that's the principle.
The second purpose is to act as an international library for research.
a very large number, a portion of them are.
We just come from that side of us.
This is all the Bodleian right here.
Yes.
In this area.
What you're in now is a new volcano, which was built in the 30s and opened just after the war.
And there's an old Bodleian?
An old Bodleian, yes.
Where you sort of shop.
That's it, the old Bodleian.
Oh, so the library separated by the street?
Yes.
You can walk on the ground to the other side.
Will I be able to see a few things while I'm allowed?
Well, I can take you over there, yes.
That would be wonderful.
Is there kind of a friendly competition between Oxford and Cambridge for the acquisition of what's going on?
Yes.
Do you collect basically the same things?
We have the same sort of materials, yes.
I'm trying to get into this delicately.
Would you say it's a healthy competition?
Do you ever find yourselves in the position of bidding against each other?
We wouldn't normally bid commercially against them.
I don't think we've ever been in that position.
If a major item came up in Yorkshire, we should.
Nicholas Barker was telling me the other night about a very interesting story, which I hadn't heard about, and I had to check it.
Oh, gee, put this tape on the other side before we went out.